# CS360 - Mobile Architect & Programming

## Briefly summarize the requirements and goals of the app you developed. What user needs was this app designed to address?
The goal for this project was to create an inventory management app. The app was supposed to allow users to create an inventory, then track and adjust the counts of items in said inventory. Users would first create a username and password, then would be presented with the main inventory screen where they could add and then see a list of items in inventory. Item's could be deleted, renamed, or have the quantities adjusted.
## What screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the app? How did your UI designs keep users in mind? Why were your designs successful?
To enable the user to do all of the things mentioned above, there had to be the following screens and features: a login screen, with a login and register option; an inventory display home screen, with an item recycler; an add item button and corresponding add item screen; an edit item screen; and a settings screen. Underpinning the inventory recycler and add and edit screens, was an inventory database. In order to perform login validation and allow for user registration, a user credentials database was needed. Further, to update the item recycler, a recyclerview adapter was needed.
## How did you approach the process of coding your app? What techniques or strategies did you use? How could those techniques or strategies be applied in the future?
I tried to break the project down into individual modules. Each day, I would work on one module and try to get it into a working state. Once a module was complete, I would work on integrating it into the rest of the app, as a whole. This compartmentalization helped keep me focused and allowed for a fairly linear development process. This helped me to keep from getting too overwhelmed during the development process. Previous courses have also led me to the understanding that this is more-or-less how many professional development teams operate.
## How did you test to ensure your code was functional? Why is this process important, and what did it reveal?
The aforementioned modularity also helped with my testing process. Since I was only working on one module at a time, I was able to keep all of the functionality of that module in mind during the testing process. Once coding of a module or a particular aspect of a module was completed, I would create a scenrio to test that module or aspect.
I also tried to put myself in the intended users' shoes. I imagined what users would try to use this app to do, and how they would try to go about doing it in the app.
## Consider the full app design and development process from initial planning to finalization. Where did you have to innovate to overcome a challenge?
My biggest challenge with this project was trying to create an inventory that would be accessible from multiple fragments within the app. Once the app navigates to a different fragment, the objects from the previous fragment get put into a sort of "suspended animation," if you will, and are inaccessible. This posed a challenge while trying to create add and edit item screens, as the recycler from the main inventory screen would be no longer available after the app naviagted away from the home screen. I pretty quickly arrived at the solution of creating a recycler adapter and corresponding SQLite database for handling inventory. If the recycler was populated from this database, then all that would be required of the add and edit fragments would be for them to update the database. From there, all that I had to do was make sure that the recycler was notified of a dataset change each time the home fragment was brought into view.
## In what specific component of your mobile app were you particularly successful in demonstrating your knowledge, skills, and experience?
I think the login screen was one of my favorite and most-successful parts of this app. While it's not a huge component of the app, overall, I put a lot of love into it. The login screen uses a credentials database and follows industry best practices for encrypting and verifying users' passwords. While they probably won't be the main focuses of my career, data privacy and cybersecurity are fascinating and important to me, and I feel that this component speaks to that.
